> Which summary statistic would you use if you wanted to get a story on the
> evening news?

Evening news "stories" better have something exciting and groundbreaking. So,
the relative risk measure makes sense here, which shows that while first babies
are 8% more likely to arrive prematurely, they are 11% less likely to arrive on
time and 65% more likely to arrive late.
Also, the percentage differences in the gestations period PMFs makes sense to
be put on TV, as it highlights the apparent fact that first children are less
likely to arrive in week 39 and slightly more likely to arrive in week 41.

> Which ones would you use if you wanted to reassure an anxious patient?

For an anxious patient wondering if her pregnancy is going to take too long
the fact that the average gestation period of first babies is about 13 hours
longer than the average gestation period for subsequent babies should be
reassuring. The difference in PMFs can also be shown to a patient stating that
slightly long pregnancies in case of a first baby are perfectly normal and such
cases are not at all rare.


> Do first babies arrive late? 

The average "normal" pregnancy is about 39 weeks or 9 months long. But is there
a significant difference in the gestation periods of first babies and
subsequent babies? The question is, do first babies tend to arrive late?

We shall use the National Survey of Family Growth(NSFG) cycle 6(2002) data
which contains data on the pregancies of American women. We consider only live
births. The findings after descriptive statistical analysis are as follows:

1. Of the total 13,593 pregnancies, 9,148 were live pregnancies.
2. Of the 9,148 live pregnancies, 4413(48.24%) were first pregnancies and
   4735(51.76%) were subsequent pregnancies.
3. The average length of a first pregnancy was 38.6 weeks, whereas that of
   subsequent pregnancies was 38.52 weeks, making the mean gestation period
   for first babies about 13 hours longer than that for subsequent babies.
4. When we look at the PMFs of the gestation periods for first babies and for
   subsequent babies, we see that both reach their mode at about 39 weeks,
   suggesting that first babies do tend to arrive on time.
5. When we look at the _difference_ in the PMFs of first gestation periods and
   subsequent gestation periods, however, we can see that first babies are
   comparitively less likely to arrive on time versus subsequent babies, and 
   are slightly more likely to arrive late in week 41.
6. When we look at the conditional probability distributions of both the cases,
   we see that the chance of having a first baby on time is _comparitively_
   less than the chance of having a subsequent baby on time given that the
   baby did not arrive early, but the chance of a first baby arriving late does
   trump out the chance of having a subsequent baby late given the baby did not
   arrive early or on time.
7. Looking at the relative risks, which is just the ratio of the fraction of
   first pregnancy lengths which lie within a given range to the fraction
   subsequent pregnancy lengths that lie within the same range.
   This study shows that while first babies are about 8% more likely to arrive
   early, they are 11% less likely to arrive on time copared to subsequent
   babies. Also, first babies are 65% more likely to arrive late!

Conclusion
==========
While some summary statistics suggest that there is not much of a difference in
the gestation periods for first and subsequent babies, when we compare both, it
does turn out that first pregnancies are likely to be longer than subsequent
pregnancies.



